
In a city where citizens must feast on the hearts of others in order to advance, will you do your best to resist the system while trying to survive, or embrace society's foundation on violence and seek success?

Feeble Force leverages speedrunning and game-breaking mechanics to tell its story about a city that's dying. In a city where inhabitants must feast on the hearts of others in order to advance, will you do your best to resist the system while trying to survive, or embrace society's foundation on violence and seek success?

longer second part:

Feeble Force is mechanically built around speedrunning and game-breaking mechanics which it leverages to tell its story about the city it takes place in. The inhabitants of this city are always dying, and the only way for them to recover health is to consume the heart of another human. However, as people consume more hearts they begin to lose their humanity and mutate into something else.

Levels in the game are designed with game-breaking and speedrunning mechanics in mind, and to some extent are meant to be broken. It is completely possible to beat the game without utilizing these techniques, but players who are willing to experiment with them may be able to upset the system that the city and the game itself operate under, upending expectations for their character.

The game functions as a sort of 1-directional metroidvania: as the player mutates, some pathways in the city will open up while others become inaccessible. Players will be led on different paths depending on how they play and will likely have to play through the game multiple times in different ways to uncover the full story of what is happening in the city.

-----

Feeble Force is an action platformer whose mechanics tell a story about the city it takes place in. The inhabitants of this city are always dying, and the only way for them to recover health is to consume the heart of another human. However, as people consume more hearts they begin to lose their humanity and mutate into something else.

Levels in the game are designed to some extent to be broken. It is completely possible to beat the game without utilizing game breaking techniques, but players who are willing to experiment with them may be able to upset the system that the city and the game itself operate under, upending expectations for their character.

-----

Feeble Force attempts a design that is conscious of the game-breaking techniques utilized by many speedrunners, designing levels that to some extent are meant to be broken. Environmental puzzle mechanics often have an effect on player movement attributes such as gravity, friction, and speed, allowing players to approach puzzles in a clever and experimental manner to boost themselves into unexpected areas. Some game states and systemic assumptions can also be exploited to allow for additional game-breaking.

There are multiple endings which involve the participation of the player in different ways depending on how they played their way through the game, meaning players have to play through the game multiple times to get the full story of the city and to witness the final events of the game from all perspectives.

It is completely possible to beat the game without utilizing these techniques, but players who are willing to experiment in game-breaking will be able to access parts of the city that their character is not intended to reach, and can even upset the system that the city and the game itself operate under, reaching unintended end states for their character.


For pitching:

Mostly looking for artists who can get on board politically, even if the game itself is weird and vague and doesn't explicitly present a political perspective, I'd like to work with a team that understands and is down with what's happening under the surface. This pretty much just means I'm looking for people who have a personal interest in exploring the game's metaphor for this current era in which the contradictions of capitalism are being stretched to their limits.


-----
artist statement (indiecade):

The inspiration for Feeble Force came from reflecting on the role we play living under a system that regularly operates through systemic violence, and our daily participation in that violence through our participation in capitalist society. Specifically the ideas around the game started to crystallize more clearly for me after I lost my job and was looking for cheaper housing in the Bay Area. I was forced to consider the gentrifying capacity my presence in the bay operates under, and beyond that, the internal colonization and external imperialism of America that I've benefited materially from.

In the city of Feeble Force different conceptual forms of exploitation have been thematically distilled into the literal consumption of human hearts and blood. All inhabitants of the city are dying (including the player as their health bar is always slowly decreasing), and so the player, along with everyone else in the game, has to constantly choose whether to compromise their principles (through participation in the violent system, by eating other people's hearts) in order to survive. The more hearts that the player consumes, the more they'll mutate into a monster, which makes them more powerful and capable of jumping farther but also slower and unable to access a lot of areas that they otherwise would be able to. There are a few endings to the game, and players' choices are more complex than whether to be violent or not, but also whether to simply seek a less violent life for themselves individually or whether to engage in collective struggle against the system itself.

innovation statement (indiecade):

There's no dialogue in the game so all the themes and context are communicated through the game systems and the environment, and I think the most engaging part of the gameplay experience is deciphering what's happening in the city and why, and what it means for the player. The game expects the player to play through it multiple times (in order to see all the areas of the city and get multiple endings) before really being able to put all the pieces together. Images of hearts and blood are repeatedly invoked, bringing a theme of health to the forefront, and the players' health and death operate as important meta-mechanics. Health is always decreasing and the only way to recover it is through consuming a heart, which mutates the player permanently. This means every attempt to heal results in a permanent change. Checkpoints are represented as stasis chambers around the map which fill with blood when activated, and when the player loads from a checkpoint the stasis chamber breaks permanently, meaning each stasis chamber represents one consumable save, encouraging the player to try restarting the game multiple times and experiment with different playstyles (and hopefully have more opportunities to see different parts of the city and try to uncover the story of what's going on in the city and why).

---

Fletcher Cole and Fred Tarabout met while competing in TowerFall tournaments in 2015. They quickly realized they shared similar perspectives on both world politics and video games, and that they were both interested in working on their own games outside of the corporate entities that employed them. In 2017 after experiencing layoffs, they decided to work together on each others' games in a skill share capacity, allowing both games to be made on a limited budget and eventually resulting in being able to have multiple independent games under their belts! They are currently working on both Feeble Force and Batbarian (https://blob7.wixsite.com/batbarian). Nick Drexler discovered the team at the POW chiptune concert during GDC, and decided he'd love to put his experience in chiptune DJing to work in Feeble Force, adding a lot to the aural texture of the game!

Fletcher Cole was originally experimenting with the concepts of Feeble Force on his own in 2016. Upon sharing his ideas with Fred Tarabout, and Fred shared his ideas for his game Batbarian he'd been working on, the two of them decided to work on the two games in tandem, Fletcher as the programmer, and Fred as the artist on both games. This team structure has worked very well as the two of them are able to bounce ideas off each other as well as work on a limited budget. Both games have been shown at a number of events around GDC, as well as offically shown at PAX East (at Indie Megabooth and Playcrafting booths). At GDC both games were shown at the POW chiptune concert, where Fletcher and Fred met Nick Drexler, an experienced chiptune DJ. Nick's sounds and music have fit the style and mood of Feeble Force perfectly, not just because of the pixel art graphics but also because of Nick's moody drone effects adding to the sense of desperation prevailing through the city in the game. The team is excited to release Feeble Force this Fall!