
Feeble Force is a game about a city that's dying. The various pillars of exploitation that keep its society running have all been distilled into the physical consumption of human hearts: The machinery of the city runs on blood, and the inhabitants must feast on the hearts of their neighbors in order to survive and be successful.

Mechanically the game is built around speedrunning and game-breaking mechanics which it leverages to tell its story about the city it takes place in. Players, as well as enemies and NPCs, are always dying, and the only way for them to recover health is to consume the heart of another human. However, as people consume more hearts, over time they slowly lose their humanity and begin to mutate into something else entirely.

Since they are constantly losing health, players are forced to play through the game quickly, and must choose whether to stop to engage in combat and risk their life to recover health, or to keep going without mutating or recovering health. Higher level mutants grow in size, become stronger, and can jump higher, but also might not be able to fit into all the areas that lower level mutants can. There are many pathways through the city, and many are only available to mutants at a specific level of mutation.

Consuming a heart is a permanent decision, and permanently contributes to the mutation of the character, meaning once a character mutates they can never return to a lesser mutated state. This fact, combined with the constant loss of health, means that players will have to choose which path they are taking through the city; the entire city cannot be explored in one playthrough, at least not without heavy utilization of game-breaking techniques. There are multiple endings which all consist of the same scene but which involve the participation of the player in different ways depending on how they played their way through the game, meaning players will have to play through the game multiple times to get the full story of the city and see the final events of the game from all perspectives.

Unlike many other games that are built for speedrunning, Feeble Force attempts a design that is concious of the game-breaking techniques utilized by many speedrunners, designing levels that to some extent are meant to be broken. Environmental puzzle mechanics often have an effect on player movement attributes such as gravity, friction, and speed, allowing players to approach these puzzles in a clever and experimental manner to boost themselves into unexpected spaces. Some game states and systemic assumptions can also be exploited to allow for additional game-breaking.

It is completely possible to beat the game without utilizing these techniques, but players who are willing to experiment in game-breaking will be able to access parts of the city that their level of mutant is not intended to reach, and can even upset the system that the city and the game itself operates under, reaching unintended end states for their character.

